Okay,
guys,
um,
welcome back.
And now what we're gonna do is we're gonna extend the functionality of that end function.
So let's just click back here a second.
The end is effectively the same as hitting control on the arrow keys.
But what would happen if we wanted to do the thing that we do when we hit control and shift
?
So that way we get the whole of that line or here and down and we get the whole of that
line where we can do that in code to And that's gonna prove particularly useful if you want
to do something with an entire line or column of data.
Now here there's loads of remarks in here and again.
We have down,
up,
right,
on left.
But for a moment,
let's just have a look at what the record set the recorded macro does now.
Hardly surprising,
it says range.
A five dot selects,
selects a five and then we can see that we have the range object enclosed in parentheses.
We have what we're going to do.
We're going to say with the selection a five that is our beginning point range a 52 a five
,
the selection dot end,
which we just looked at and here we're going to say,
excel down.
So we're going to go from five down to here,
close brackets,
close brackets.
And remember,
this is a range,
so it's going to capture it all,
and then we're going to apply the method dot select,
but here a game,
because we have the range specified.
And then we're saying selection and selection.
We can just replace that selection directly and tell it what the range is here on what the
range is here and that's going to achieve exactly the same thing in half the amount of code
.
You know,
just as we looked at before when we looked at the end,
We don't have to specify in hard code what the start point is.
We can just say from the active cell,
So I'm just going to step through the first line of code so you can see what it does.
So there you go.
On there's a five selected on a five down.
I'm just going to click on a five again.
I'm gonna hit F eight and they ghost on exactly the same thing.
But if I clicked here and then came back to the code window and executed this.
That works because D seven was the active cell on.
We have the equivalent moves for up right on left.
Now,
when you may be thinking is what if I just wanted to capture all of that region.
Everything that's encapsulated by blank rows and columns.
Well,
we're gonna come to that in the next lecture.
Okay,
I'll see you That.